Add release-danube changelog (#9542)
mapbox/mapbox-gl-js: CHANGELOG.md

## 1.10.0-beta.1

### ✨ Features

* Add `mapboxgl.preloadWorkerPool()` and `mapboxgl.removePreloadedWorkerPool()` methods to allow developers to optimize load times for their maps ([#9391](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9391))
* Add `index-of` and `slice` expressions to search arrays and strings for the first occurrence of a specified value and return a section of the original array or string ([#9450](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9450)) (h/t [lbutler](https://github.com/lbutler))
* Correctly set RTL text plugin status if the plugin URL could not be loaded. This allows developers to add retry logic on network errors when loading the plugin ([#9489](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9489))

> ### Gestures ([#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Gestures 
This release significantly refactors and improves gesture handling on desktop and mobile. Three new touch gestures have been added: `two-finger swipe` to adjust pitch, `two-finger double tap` to zoom out, and `tap then drag` to adjust zoom with one finger ([#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365)). In addition, this release brings the following changes and bug fixes:
```

Reviewer: @karimnaaji @ansis an extra set of eyes here to ensure I’ve described each gesture correctly would be good

- You can now interact with multiple maps on the same page at the same page. For example, pinch rotate one map while touch panning a different one

> add a second finger, keep panning, remove the first, keep panning

Reviewer: 🤔 I'm quite confused by this example: `For example, pinch rotate one map while touch panning a different one
add a second finger, keep panning, remove the first, keep panning` -- was something accidentally deleted from L12?

In any case, I think "You can now interact with multiple maps on the same page at the same page." is sufficiently clear without needing an example -- people can head to the PR for details,  so I recommend removing.

> - You can now interact with multiple maps on the same page at the same page. For example, pinch rotate one map while touch panning a different one
> add a second finger, keep panning, remove the first, keep panning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's now possible to interact with multiple maps on the same page at the same time [#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365)
```

- Fix map jump when releasing one finger after pinch zoom ([#9136](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9136))

> - Stop mousedown and touchstart from interrupting easeTo animations if interaction handlers are disabled ([#8725](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/8725))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stop mousedown and touchstart from interrupting `easeTo` animations when interaction handlers are disabled ([#8725](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/8725))
```

- Stop mouse wheel from interrupting animations when `map.scrollZoom` is disabled ([#9230](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9230))

> - The previous gestures implementation prevented a camera change from actually happening if the interaction handler responsible for the change was disabled within the camera change event (`dragstart` or `rotatestart`). This behavior was not documented. It is no longer possible to prevent a camera change after it's event has been fired. It is possible some applications may be depending on this behavior. The correct way for these applications to selectively prevent camera changes is to listen to the `mousedown` or `touchstart` map event and call [.preventDefault()](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/api/#mapmouseevent#preventdefault) on it. For example, `map.on("mousedown", function(mapMouseEvent) { mapMouseEvent.preventDefault(); })`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A camera change can no longer be prevented by disabling the interaction handler within the camera change event. Selectively prevent camera changes by listening to the `mousedown` or `touchstart` map event and then calling [.preventDefault()](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/api/#mapmouseevent#preventdefault) ([#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365))
```

> - The camera change events fired by the doubleClickZoom handler (`zoomstart`, `zoom`, `zoomend`, `movestart`, `move`, `moveend`) used to have undocumented properties such as `lngLat` and `point`. These have been removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Undocumented properties on the camera change events fired by the doubleClickZoom handler (`zoomstart`, `zoom`, `zoomend`, `movestart`, `move`, `moveend`) have been removed ([#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365))
```

### 🍏 Other improvements

* Line labels now have improved collision detection, with greater precision in placement, reduced memory footprint, better placement under pitched camera orientations ([#9219](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9219))
* Fix `GlyphManager` continually re-requesting missing glyph ranges ([#8027](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/8027), fixed by [#9375](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9375)) (h/t [oterral](https://github.com/oterral))

### 🐞 Bug fixes

* Avoid throwing errors when calling certain popup methods before the popup element is created ([#9433](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9433))
* Fix a bug where fill-extrusion features with colinear points were not returned by `map.queryRenderedFeatures(...)` ([#9454](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9454))
* Fix a bug where using feature state on a large input could cause a stack overflow error ([#9463](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9463))

> * Fix exception when using background-pattern with data driven expressions ([#9518](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9518), fixed by [#9520](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9520))

Reviewer: nit: `background-pattern`

* Fix a bug where UI popups were potentially leaking event listeners ([#9498](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9498)) (h/t [mbell697](https://github.com/mbell697))

> * Upgrade minimist to ^1.2.5 to get fix for security issue [CVE-2020-7598](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-7598) upstream ([#9425](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9431), fixed by [#9425](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9425)) (h/t [watson](https://github.com/watson))

Reviewer: nit: Dependency upgrades are usually in an “Other changes” section. We can keep it here as the last bullet alternatively.

Author: I left it since it would be quite a lonely section for this time. But reordered it last.

> * Fix a bug where `within` expression returned inconsistent value for points on tile boundaries ([#9411](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9411), [#9428](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9428))

Reviewer: Typo: values 

Or:

> Fix a bug where the `within` expression would inconsistently evaluate points on tile boundaries

> * Fix `within` expression issue for geometry crossing the 180th Meridian ([#9440](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9440))

Reviewer: nit: Fix a bug where the `within` expression would incorrectly evaluate geometries that cross the antimeridian

> * Fix potential undefined exception on paint variable of style layer ([#9437](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9437)) (h/t [mannnick24](https://github.com/mannnick24))

Reviewer: nit: **possible** undefined exception

## 1.10.0-beta.1

### ✨ Features

* Add `mapboxgl.preloadWorkerPool()` and `mapboxgl.removePreloadedWorkerPool()` methods to allow developers to optimize load times for their maps ([#9391](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9391))
* Add `index-of` and `slice` expressions to search arrays and strings for the first occurrence of a specified value and return a section of the original array or string ([#9450](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9450)) (h/t [lbutler](https://github.com/lbutler))
* Correctly set RTL text plugin status if the plugin URL could not be loaded. This allows developers to add retry logic on network errors when loading the plugin ([#9489](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9489))

> ### 🍏 Improvements

Reviewer: I like the practice we adopt on mobile of being flexible with the sub-heading names when a release features a particularly large number of changes centered on a specific category. For example, see how the iOS team handled the recent snapshotter refactor: https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-native-ios/releases/tag/ios-v5.8.0 

For this release, the changelog could be organized as:
```
### Features

### Gestures

### Other improvements
```

Author: Updated

> * An outstanding list of gesture issues and improvements were addressed in this release ([#9365](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9365))

Reviewer: nit: HMmmm which meaning of "outstanding" are we trying to convey? Its presence strikes me as slightly off

Reviewer: Also: do we think it's necessary to have this much detail in the changelog, especially when our changes are in accordance with general widely-adopted best practices for gestures? I lean towards a higher level summary and then a link to the PR for the rest.

Author: Removed and focused on smaller set instead https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9542/commits/f5aa3f619aa1baa99f4a5ade94f28a8b3ec7e1d5.

@ansis Please confirm that this reflects your work appropriately.

    - Fix `map.isZooming()` and `map.isMoving()` while zooming with Apple Magic mouse ([#6562](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/6562))
  - _Changes to undocumented behavior_
     - The previous gestures implementation prevented a camera change from actually happening if the interaction handler responsible for the change was disabled within the camera change event (`dragstart` or `rotatestart`). This behavior was not documented. It is no longer possible to prevent a camera change after it's event has been fired. It is possible some applications may be depending on this behavior. The correct way for these applications to selectively prevent camera changes is to listen to the `mousedown` or `touchstart` map event and call [.preventDefault()](https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/api/#mapmouseevent#preventdefault) on it. For example, `map.on("mousedown", function(mapMouseEvent) { mapMouseEvent.preventDefault(); })`;
     - The camera change events fired by the doubleClickZoom handler (`zoomstart`, `zoom`, `zoomend`, `movestart`, `move`, `moveend`) used to have undocumented properties such as `lngLat` and `point`. These have been removed

> * More precise collision detection for line labels ([#9219](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9219))

Reviewer: I appreciate the greater clarity that comes from breaking out this PR into sub-bullets, but given how long this changelog already is from the gestures improvement, I wonder whether we can shorten the syntax of some of the improvements and keep things as a single entry, e.g.:

> Line labels now have improved collision detection, with greater precision in placement, reduced memory footprint, better placement under pitched camera orientations.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9542/commits/a1219354822fe417ce65bf1abf8377966f6a41a3

  - Improves placement under various camera orientation
  - More tightly packed labels during placement, resulting in more visible labels
  - Reduced memory footprint

> * Fix `GlyphManager` continually re-requesting missing glyphs ranges ([#8027](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/8027), fixed by [#9375](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/pull/9375)) (h/t [oterral](https://github.com/oterral))

Reviewer: Oh nice! I'm glad this got fixed. Should it be `glyph ranges` instead of glyphs?

> * Remove Hershey Simplex font from our licence, which no longer needs attribution ([#9392](https://github.com/mapbox/mapbox-gl-js/issues/9392))

Reviewer: I'm not sure I think that this needs to be our changelog. 

If we decide to include it, we should explain why it no longer needs attribution. I assume it's because we're no longer using it, in which case we could write: 

> Remove attribution for the Hershey Simplex font from license.txt, which this project no longer uses.

Reviewer: Also, we should stick to the spelling of license that matches the name of the file

Author: I was not sure about this. Removed in 1f48c6396dbfc9caae467398fd73f8e779b2653f.
